
IDEDOS cartridge
----------------

This cartridge implements an IDE64 memory mapping and a IDE64 v4 style
ATA interface emulation to run IDEDOS on the 1541U.

Selectable by as "IDEDOS" or "Custom IDEDOS ROM". Also runnable from
cartridge files.

Differences to a IDE64 cartridge are:
- missing DS1302. Therefore no real-time clock or setting saving.
- no latches in ATA interface, incompatible with CFSfsck 0.5b and earlier only.

While it is possible to use a firmware compiled for IDE64 v4, this is not
recommended as it's not possible to enter the CMOS setup due to missing
DS1302. It will also not handle the freeze button, as this needs special
support.

A single ATA harddisk is emulated at the moment. It is mapped when the
device is initialized by IDEDOS (HDINIT). At that point it'll choose the
last attached removable device, and retains in until it's removed. After
removal no further access is possible until another initialization is
done. Once a device was initialized it won't change until removal.

Do not change the device while in operation as it might corrupt it. As a
hard disk is emulated which is not removable normally IDEDOS will not
detect the change (that's why it's blocked until hdinit).

The removable device can be either a SD card or an USB mass storage
device. Only 512 byte sector sizes are supported. If a device does not
show up in the menu, it's not usable for the ATA emulation either.

IDEDOS has limited support for FAT filesystems. Therefore it's strongly
recommended to use it's native filesystem. Either by dedicating a device
to it (easy), or by using a "CF" partition to hold the native partitions.

The ATA hard disk emulation runs on the same CPU as the rest of 1541U.
Therefore unexpected intermittent "hangs" might occur while accessing
the disk. For example attaching a D64 will stall hard disk reads until
it's finished.

SD card writing might be low performance with cheap cards, also some USB
devices write slowly. In general it's very likely the performance will be
lower than using a CF card on a IDE64.

Attaching a real hard disk without it's own power supply to the USB port
is asking for trouble. Don't do it, it might draw too much power and
might do damage on either sides. Try to use a powered hub to get around
this (untested).

Card readers might not work if you're unlucky. Mine doesn't at least.

While the timing was tested and it seems to be stable on my machine it
does not mean you might not get data corruption on your setup. It's your
responsibility to ensure testing before trusting important data to it.
You have been warned!

PCLink support is limited. X1541 and PC64 should work with IDEDOS
compiled for it.

"Running" programs from the 1541U menu will disable the IDEDOS cartridge
emulation. Better attach D64 images to the 1541 emulation.

The built in IEC emulation is not compatible with many things, including
IDEDOS. Switch it off and use the 1541 emulation instead.

REU and other stuff can be used together with the IDEDOS cartridge as far as I
know.

SuperCPU compatibility was not tested. It requires the right IDEDOS image
if it works.

Do not use CFSfsck 0.5b and earlier. Due to a bad "optimization" it'll not
work correctly with the ATA interface. This was corrected in later versions.

